welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
business
[Music]
hi everyone and welcome back to a fresh
episode of sam's business growth show
i'm excited to be joined by the sales
and linkedin wizard
that is marcus chan marcus is a founder
over at ven lee consulting group he
helps b2b sales professionals
sell more and sell better without years
of experience through his coaching and
training programs
he's been featured in yahoo finance
market watch
nbc and more for his results and he's
trained thousands of sales professionals
all across the world marcus very well
welcome sir
how are you hey sam i'm i'm happy to be
here thank you so much and i've never
been called a sales wizard before
so i appreciate the nicest thing i've
ever heard before i've heard many
terrible things
i think my diet coke's just kicked in
man because i've just got an energy buzz
and it just felt right at the time so i
thought i'd play with it
um so looking forward to chatting marcus
and um there's plenty of stuff i know
today we're going to take a focus on
linkedin and how everyone tuning in
today can generate a consistent flow
of clients and uh keep their pipeline
stocked to the brim
of regular new biz before we jump into
that juicy stuff
i'd love to get a bit of background on
yourself marcus so for anyone who
doesn't know marcus chan
perhaps you could give us a five minute
background on kind of where you're from
how you got into sales and why you
started your own business and maybe one
or two lessons along the way that you
might have picked up that could be of
use for us
yeah absolutely right so i'm marcus chan
i'm the founder of the consulting
consulting group and creator of six
figure sales academy
and uh this business i started about a
year ago in which i worked directly with
business business sales professionals to
help them sell more and earn more
without needing years of experience it's
been an incredible
year and i'll share some lessons from
there but before that i was in corporate
america as we call it for 14 plus years
uh you know and i started from uh
outside sales
working my way up to executive sales
leadership roles was pretty fortunate
got promoted uh 10 times in 10 years you
know
led large team my last org i had 110
plus employees over
multiple states who did quite a bit of
revenue each year as well
and uh honestly i love doing that i was
an incredible experience and i learned a
lot of great things but eventually i
started my own business
because i want to make a greater impact
on being sales professionals across the
world
in fact i wanted to be able to help them
uh succeed in b2b sales because i know
it's so
difficult and the reason i know so
difficult because when i first
started in b2b sales you know even
though you know you jokingly called me a
uh
you know a sales wizard when i started i
was the complete
opposite all right i was the complete
opposite i was
awful at sales i struggled and sales was
really
really hard for me eventually i
fortunately figured out and had success
but i essentially wanted to build
programs
and build support for someone like me
who got in sales who didn't know from me
to create or not
but needs the tools the path the
blueprint to be successful
and that's what i essentially have
turned my my new life now
that i've created or last year to do and
focus on it's been
absolutely incredible and of course i've
learned a lot of lessons along the way
and i would say um you know my first
first year in business
you know i think at least at least one
big lesson i learned uh which
fortunately early on which is number one
and this is really when you start
something new a new venture like
starting your own business can be very
scary right like you might be an expert
on whatever you focus on
but running a business is a different
skill probably different skill than what
you were doing before so think the first
thing is number one
get a mentor right i mean it seems kind
of everyone talks about all the time but
but get a mentor who has already
achieved
what you want to achieve consistently
like that's that's the key right there
not a one-hit wonder
right like and not someone who's in a
totally different realm
but someone who actually has done what
you want to do
consistently right get that mentor right
that's really really vital
because once you have that in place
that's going to help you massively right
and then uh number two if you start
starting your own business and the next
one i would say is um
get massively clear on exactly
what is your offer going to be like and
who is it going to be for
and that type of clarity i find many new
entrepreneurs really struggle with
especially for the first year or two
so they kind of aimlessly do everything
they aimlessly market they aimlessly
sell they aimlessly do everything from
as you know their website looks totally
off to
their linkedin's totally up to their
facebook's totally off to how they even
have a conversation with a a prospect is
totally out so get crystal clear
on your offer and also you know uh
how are you who are you going to serve
exactly so
let's get a mentor and get crystal clear
yeah love both those points man
um i mean in terms of the the second
point making your offer crystal clear
making it clinical career across all
your digital assets or offline assets
online assets how you communicate with
your customers makes perfect sense and
then understand who your icp your idle
customer profile is it's
this is something that resonates across
all episodes but point one is something
we've not talked about much
um don't wanna go into it to too much
detail but
how do we how do we find a good mentor
marcus because there's a lot of i'm sure
you've only gotta go on to linkedin to
see sales trainer sales mentor sales
whatever it may be how do we find
someone who's trusted
um that we can actually think yeah
they're going to help me rather than rip
me off because that's always something
that's been on my mind yes
100 right so i think the first thing is
is um you know first
uncover what skills do you need to
develop that's first thing right like
what skills i need to develop right if
it says
let's say it's if it's sales skills okay
if you improve your sales skills great
then obviously start looking at you know
who who who potentially could help you
right if you looked on linkedin there
are so many people which i i find
hilarious who are now sales gurus sales
wizards
sales experts whatever you want to call
them right and they put that on there
which
which drives me crazy first off like if
you call yourself
a sales visitor or expert on your
profile you're probably not an expert or
a wizard
i'm just saying right so that's the
first thing now
on top of that once you uncover some
people the first thing i'll
look at is just take a look at you know
like
is there proof right what i mean by that
is like is there stuff
actually good and proven right and one
of the best things to do what i love
about linkedin
are their recommendations like if they
only have one recommendation
chances are probably good that they
have not really proven their their worth
right that's a person that's pretty easy
that's like an amazon review
right like it what was it was it show on
the recommendations right
and then i just started digging through
now perhaps maybe they're new on
linkedin
but do they have other variations so
some people will still put video
testimonials up screenshots et cetera
whatever approve is great and then of
course
if you're on linkedin look at their
content does their content
is the actual of high value or is it a
bunch of fluffy stuff
right like like yes there's mindset
stuff in sales but if you only talk
about mindset
and there's nothing else behind it like
there's no taxes there's no strategy
there's a bunch of fluffy stuff
that'll tell you pretty quickly right so
and that's where i think it's like
anything else
when you look to get a mentor you are
investing in yourself
right and and i find the best ones
you pay for it's that simple if you want
for me personally
i have spent well in the five figures
this year with my mentor
very intentionally and it's exploded my
business in a very good way
and dude very intentionally because i
know who i
work with is if he's phenomenal what he
does
like that he's an expert in marketing
and building online businesses
i'm not i i like sales
like he's an expert something else that
i need help with right so i made sure
i paid for a mentor that i knew would
help me scale my game up and he has
right and that's where it's really vital
too but but first before i
just willingly drop money i did my
homework
i check i checked for information i
checked about social proof i checked for
all the things you know what this is a
good investment it's an investment just
like anything else
and when you invest in the right thing
it can explode your business
your skills your mindset whatever you're
working on
it can really skyrocket next level if
you do the right homework to ensure it's
the right fit for you
love that love that so understand the
the aspects of business or sales
whatever marketing whatever maybe you
need help with
do proper research and then be prepared
to invest in a professional it sounds
like
that's right cool man that's right all
right well let's jump into the main
topic marcus how we can
actually generate a consistent flow of
clients using linkedin
so i think if we could start from the
top really so if we start to someone
that's fairly new to linkedin
maybe just just goes on there a few
times perhaps does the odd
weekly post perhaps engages occasionally
on someone's comment and
isn't really sure if this platform is
actually worthwhile if it's going to
generate them leads if it's going to
generate them b2b business so perhaps we
could start from the top
and just lay out some kind of framework
as an a to z
of of how we can do it how we can set up
our profile how we can attract leads
and how we can even prospect and and
gain outbound inquiries
100 right so um and the way i look it's
right it's
what's important understand is when
people when people are saying hey
will linkedin work for me will it help
me generate the amount of revenue i want
um it's important to understand that
linkedin like anything else
it's a tool all right it's a tool right
like
this is a tool right a hammer
is a tool if you think about a hammer
with a hammer you can either
you know you know break something down
right or just stay
in your tool shed if you or your you
know your tool belt right
or you can just use to build an
incredible house a mansion a palace etc
right it's the same tool but used very
differently and linked in the same way
some people can use it as okay you know
what i kind of post will you know which
for sure and you might maybe yourself
maybe you
don't but there has to be intentional
strategy with
linkedin okay so if you do it properly
you can build a thriving business offer
right so give you an example
i mean i've used linkedin heavily uh
over the last
last year last 11 months right and on
average
i generate on an inbound lead not even
outbound inbound lead i get eight to 12
leads every single day
inbound into my funnels because of
linkedin
all right some days are better some days
are worse but on average eight to twelve
right
and that's resulted in literally
multiple six figures in revenue
only off linkedin as that peer traffic
source all right
and that i don't say it to like it's not
i mean i was able to do way more
and be able to do way less but it's to
give an example of the power
of linkedin if you use it properly right
and of course it's going to keep
going up the more i use it so
what you want to do is kind of break
into frameworks my soul if i was brand
new to linkedin right now the first
thing i would do which is what i
did once i change roles is i would
optimize
my profile so you want to optimize your
linkedin profile
okay whenever you are on linkedin
and you are engaging with content or you
do anything whether you post content or
not
the first thing everybody does is check
out the profile
and when they check out the profile
subconsciously
that person who's lurking on your page
is asking themselves a couple questions
they're saying
hey is this person worth my time
are they credible and can they help me
that's really what they're asking so
your
linkedin profile needs to address all
those questions
and put them at ease right when they
look at your profile
page it should be wow they are of high
value they are
credible i potentially can get value out
of just even
looking at their stuff right it doesn't
mean they'll buy right now which is
totally fine but it's more so
can you help gain their trust and get
them to like you that's really it okay
so and that goes from having a really
good
uh banner right so your banner is
important okay so that's basically
free real estate for whatever you want
to say if you are in the
digital marketing game your page is like
a landing page okay
right so that banner is really vital
for being able to track them for a call
to action right that then you gotta
think about also your headshot do you
have a good professional headshot
nothing crazy
right to even your tagline does your
tagline
capture people right so like for example
mine
i use a pattern interrupt right meaning
when people read it they're like
huh and it caused them to stop and think
and probably check out my profile it
increases their channel and it says
the first thing it says is like from
speedos to selling seven-figure
contracts
and most people are like speedos why
this guy talking about speedos on
linkedin
boom pattern her up they check out my
profile and then they go through it and
they start
they start getting warmed up to me
through my profile that's your other
videos
setting speed that's right it's a great
business right very lucrative right
right you know so uh as you go through
right and then
you can kind of go to the rest of the
profile right um uh you can
uh the about sections really vital so in
there uh i like to personally share
a personal story because people are
captivated by stories
and if you are good at writing copy you
can write in a very good form like a
hero format so
you have a story you can some subtle
calls to actions to do some things in
there right
and then of course one if they start if
you continue to go down your profile
they might you know let's just say they
don't want to click anywhere else we
don't keep scrolling down
they now see what jobs have you had
they'll check out whatever jobs you've
had
in there you want to make sure you're
putting things
that help give you credibility right and
help establish
in their mind you as an expert right or
potential expert so
for me i know most salespeople like to
know
hey is this guy did this guy actually do
the job was he successful
did he win awards was he ranked well was
he good at his job
so i make sure i listed in there
different awards different things and i
know in rankings that are going to be
very attractive to sales people because
most sales people if they join a sales
organization most of them
don't want to lose and suck at sales
right
most of them want to do well so i make
sure that i go ahead and uh things in
there
and more credibility and then
recommendations and that's just your
profile
your profile that's all your goals gain
their trust gain their trust and going
to like you and they might
even send you a question request as a
result what's the first thing i'll do
all right so first okay so essentially
make sure
like you're saying basically it sounds
like gear your gear your
linkedin profile is a landing page so
ultimately we want it to hook leads
yes build trust and credibility
if we're working for a company or if
we've only started only recently started
our own company we perhaps don't have
awards we don't have accolades
we don't have many accreditations there
are any other ways that we can actually
build trust with our ideal customers
or people that land on our page markets
yeah hundreds
right so um let's say you start a brand
new company like you mentioned right
um i would also make sure even some of
your past stuff is outlined there as
well
because um you can still build a
personal brand all right so you start a
new company you can still build a
personal brand about you
okay so that means you can still change
your your background on camera for
absolutely free make a free banner on
there
you can still do a nice headshot you
still do a tagline
uh you can still still do your
background before right
and that's where it gets very powerful
where you can utilize
content as a way to help build up your
brand in the new field you're in
all right and when you're posting on
content out there i mean there's many
forms of content you can put you know
text only
posts you can do pdfs you can do
articles you do videos right and those
are all really great
um as of right now while we while we uh
while we do this
you know tech still has the most reach
regardless
right so the most reached video has used
a really high engagement if it's a good
video
um now all forms are good and i
recommend doing all forms right
um but at the end of the day regardless
of the the medium that you're gonna use
you're gonna put out it has to be of
value
to your target audience so when your
target audience your icp
goes on to your profile and you they see
you they're saying okay you know what
this person is
someone credible not sure maybe you're
brand new in your company okay cool
let me look let me check out you know
his or her content that content is
pretty pretty clear right there you
start looking through like okay
is it of value to them and they see a
number of consistent posts
that have shown value credibility
expertise
in whatever new field that you are in in
their mind they start getting warmed up
to you now like oh wow actually this is
a really useful video
this is a really useful you know post
this is a really good article they wrote
like that's very powerful and makes
sense
to add to that note markets before we
carry on in terms of the actual content
we put out
so i'm guilty of this all the time and
because i've had some great guests on
the show they've given me some awesome
ideas on how i can think up ideas
for content so some of our guests have
said you can actually utilize questions
your clients have asked you directly
so if people have asked you something
about your services for example in my
case digital marketing
these questions actually re-gear them
towards the content i then put out
sometimes if i'm just out and about on a
walk or playing sports whatever i'm
doing
and i think of something in my head and
i think that's quite funny or that could
give value i'll write it down on my
notes app on my phone
and then put that as a schedule as a
post a few days later but have you got
any tips in terms of what
you use and how you create your content
marcus and how you actually come up with
ideas yeah it's super simple right um
you know and here's a reality because
some some people ask them like oh man
like i'm just not that creative like i'm
not like sam
i'm not like mark i can't come up with
this upon fly here's even an
even simpler thing right um one of the
worst feelings is
you put you put you put your heart and
soul blood sweat and tears into a piece
of content and you put it out there and
you're like
crickets that's a terrible feeling no
one likes to feel whether it's me he or
anybody else
so i'm going to teach you a very simple
way which will basically you will
literally ensure
your content will be engaged with right
so
um it's very simple and here's how you
do it right so first off
it's not something crazy the reality is
is um those questions you already
mentioned sam are already on the
internet
okay like maybe your client hasn't asked
you our future clients but literally you
can go on linkedin
it's so simple you go on linkedin and
you look up a really common hashtag
that's it's common in your industry
let's say i'm an i.t
information technology you look up
hashtag information technology
go to the latest and take a look at
you know posts that have a lot of
engagement on it
and look at what those topics are number
one that might be an idea
but also number two look at the comments
what are people saying in there what are
the questions they have so if you say
for example if you find
a macro influence someone's got a lot
like maybe 50 000 plus followers
and they have a post that's got like
thousands of likes
hundreds of comments look in the
comments and you'll see
varying opinions you'll see questions
and all those are little gold nuggets
of ideas and you take those ideas
and you just paste them into a google
doc right of possible ideas
right like for example you might see an
opposing idea
that you're like oh that's totally wrong
great that's a post idea put that in
there
okay but what you're looking for is
ideally the e the hottest stuff would
always be
what are common problems issues or
challenges
that they are struggling with and put
that on the google doc that you uncover
there
right that's very powerful you could
also do the same thing by searching up
specific people in group or
specific uh groups right linkedin groups
are okay right now
but go on facebook join some groups
who are in your target market and look
at what questions they have in there
right don't join a spammer group as a
whole a spammy post
join one with high engagement and get
those ideas
and convert those into posts here's
another super ninja hack
go on amazon everyone's got amazon and
look up a popular book in that niche
let's say the information technology
again you look it up
you find whatever most popular books are
they'll tell you the best sellers okay
and go into the reviews and you don't
care about the one star reviews or the
five stars because
the one stars is probably some troll and
the five stars are like they're just
like
they're big they're big fans look for
the two through four stars
what questions do they have what do they
say is missing
what could do better those are ideas
you take and you plug that google doc so
when you do this
you now know you literally are going to
be
creating content solving the deepest
needs desires
wants and problems and challenges of
your target market
so you're not going off demographics
you're now targeting psychographic
content
which will help you gain better traction
and grow your business
so when that person who doesn't know you
comes
it profile you're brand new in your role
but you've done this research which
takes only time
and you start creating a content they
say oh you know what wow
this person knows me they know what's in
my head
and what's in my heart and that gains
trust and you do consistently
and that's important consistently you'll
start establishing yourself
as someone who is an authority in that
specific niche
does that make sense that's kind of
that's awesome i've never heard i've
never heard those tactics before
and that is awesome for a number of
reasons actually if you're if you're
brand new you've just started your own
company
and like the point i mentioned
previously i i sometimes create content
by
prospective clients or active clients
the questions they ask and then
repurpose that into useful content with
my posts
but you're talking about finding other
content that's perhaps
uh trending on certain hashtags that are
related to so in your case maybe sales
or
marketing whatever it may be and then
finding out the questions within the
thread within
within the comments the people the
problems people actually got and then
noting those on a google doc and then
utilizing that in the in the content the
post you're putting out that's amazing
and likewise with the amazon reviews on
the books with the not the five star or
the one star but the ones in between
that's yeah
that's such a great idea for people that
perhaps don't have clients yet and just
can
pick up ideas for copy that's awesome
dude love it okay
great so that's that's the post and as
you mentioned obviously text-based posts
are getting the most reach
but just like yourself i like to mix it
up a bit put the odd video out now and
there
as well as imagery um and i'm sure you
agree it gives people a bit more of a
flavor for who you are
if you're constantly putting out text
and no one ever sees you they might just
think you're a robot
right that's right cool man so um
all right so that's that's the profile
covered that's how to create
content and what's what's the next piece
of the puzzle marcus
yeah so so now if your pro profile's
good your content you're starting to put
out content
right the third piece and this is you
really need this as well
is you have to make sure to engage
that's really really important like
when you are starting to put content out
first off when you first probably first
piece of content
my first piece of content i got like
maybe one like it was probably from me
right so
uh at first you may not get the
attraction you want that's okay
but as you start getting engagement on
your posts
make sure you are engaging back
meaningfully
really important right because somehow
you can put up a great post
and it's gonna be you know a great topic
about whatever and someone was like oh
i love that you know like you know like
and they have a question
answer the question now if you wanna be
really strategic you
answer and you drop an open open loop
question so this helps
create more more it drives the algorithm
to get more views onto your content so
for example
you know they say hey that was an
awesome post
and that might be the po the comment
fantastic uh you know what did you like
most about the post
or how will you apply this to x you know
what or whatever your post is about
so they'll hopefully respond and they'll
sort of create more of a thread
and have more of a dialogue which is
powerful because other people will see
it
and it's an opportunity for you to be
able to well be really valuable and
helpful
again you're not selling anything you're
probably being helpful here right
so the engaging piece now on top of that
what you also want to do as well
is you want to make sure you are um you
go into the hashtags again same concept
and you are engaging go the latest okay
because
um using the life of a linkedin post
user the best life is within the first
you know
six to 12 hours so you want to go in
there and you want to make sure you are
in commenting and engaging
with every single post in the hashtag
okay when you're new just just
don't even think don't don't try to
judge what's good around every single
post in the hashtag
for the last 24 hours right every day
build make it a habit go
there and boom comment comment comment
comment now don't be like
a robot but like cool neat awesome
whatever
go and reading what's going to say dude
what's before we before we get into this
this is a bit of controversial topic
i don't want to spend too much time on
it but what's your thought on linkedin
pods
which are almost that easy to see
because you see a post that
there's only probably a few lines of
text it's probably something
regurgitated about a thousand times
already on linkedin
and you see it's got a thousand likes a
thousand comments but every comment is
like yes
great content or awesome content man or
good job
it's like just makes you cringe it's
just like what's the point
oh yeah and i see him uh
now here's the thing like you have to be
very careful because people try to
invite me to their engagement pods
okay um be very careful right because
i think about this like if you join
engagement pod which may look
good and you may get you more views
right i understand why people will want
to do it
okay but if that pod goes away and your
stuff goes down
that won't help you at all right so and
that
and here's the thing um you know
you have really good engagement if you
consistently get connection requests
that are not just like you know people
selling forex and bitcoin you know
programs
like if you get a lot of connection
requests because your car is really good
that's a good sign
okay if you're not getting that you
probably need to give really bad content
so with that being said like
it depends on the engagement pod right
and and i say that because
like technically any type of group sms
or
mms is now engagement pod now you have
to be careful there because some of them
are just like you mentioned good job
need those are lame
but if it's if it's a group of people
that are really like
actually engaged and they want to get
help that's
different but again technically is
probably gained impossible for example
i'm in a group with rev genius people
right and so that's a new thing on
linkedin for really popular right but
they're actually finding you they're
like they're wearing gate we actually
enjoy
engaging those stuff because actually
quality stuff right
is it technically engagement pod yeah
probably
but it's not the same way that some
people see it right so i think there's
differentiation right
it's kind of like there's crappy tools
and bad tools now
they invite me to i'm like okay makes
sense right there's only like
only like five people in there okay it's
actually engaged right
so that's a little different there right
versus some of the ones i've seen where
it's like
oh yeah there's like 30 40 people in
here and they all
really go in and just like and engage
with those stuff and that's the only
comments you see on there
that's a problem that's a problem right
so
the right way it's great but but here's
the thing don't worry about the
engagement pods
focus on quality content focus on
quality content when you have quality
content
that will trump engage in pots like your
stuff will get seen if you have quality
consistent content
but then you also engage you engage with
your stuff
you engage with others now give me
example right so go back to the
engagement strategy it ties back to the
whole piece too
right uh when when if you're in the
hashtags and you're engaging
when you're brand new and you're
engaging with people on there
do consistently and over time when you
engage
the first thing to do is look at your
profile they say wow that's pretty
interesting
so then they'll check you out and either
connect with you or follow you right
and then if you really quality content
they'll keep
engaging their stuff right that's really
important and what you want and this is
why it's really important
that when they comment you are engaging
back
don't just like it and disappear you
want to engage with them so building
time i ready to do is really important
now on top of that
start adding adding micro and macro
influencers
so the macro influencers they have big
audiences they'll call it 20 30k
in people let's just say the micro ones
are sub 10
000 okay start adding them that are
in your same field and make sure
when they are posting you are engaging
with their stuff
a quality engagement your perspective
your opinion whatever
it's really important be helpful right
if you see a question
in those comments engage same same
concept because when you
engage consistently in there people
start seeing you again they'll add you
and start following your content too and
that eventually will turn into leads too
so that's really important so
that the whole strategy behind it
because it's gonna take it's like it's
like it's like it's like pushing a car
a car it's like you know the battery's
dead you start pushing it first it's
really hard
but once you get a little bit of
momentum as long as you maintain it
it'll keep moving
that's the same concept man so if we can
just
jump back to the part before i
interrupted you um
so the the hashtag side of things which
sounds like an awesome tip especially if
you're new to linkedin
so do we just go on to the search tool
type in the hashtag that's in our
industry
that pulls up all the posts under that
hashtag then we filter that to
um last 24 hours yeah and yes exactly
let me just
start commenting on anyone where we can
kind of add value or answer a question
or answer people's comments and and we
do all of them or we do as many as we
can
let's spend about 20 minutes or
something like that it's most things
when you know when you are new
you don't really you don't really like
you're not able to gauge it quite yet
right so you're better you're better off
when you're new just just go in
and engage as many as you can all right
that's really really key
um and you know like make it easy for
the build an
hour a day right it's called the first
thing in the morning like you post your
content up
and this is what i do i post my content
up and then spend hours
right after that i engage with anyone on
my post but
back then i when i first started i would
go into the hashtags and do it
right and i'll start doing that all
right same concept over time
you all have to do the same thing with
hashtags because your your feed will
start
filling with stuff that's really similar
you'll get more people in there right
and because of your audience it starts
building people in your like industry
you will see their comments and posts as
well and
you start with your feeding to the same
concept as well and
again every time you pose people see it
right like for example like
um if a macro influencer post something
really important that's a great post
a very well written helpful useful
comment
that's obviously very aligned right
that's not selling anything and just
being helpful on that macro influencer
can get a lot of attention
because what you're doing right there is
you are borrowing their traffic
right like you are borrowing their
traffic all those eyes on there so that
that macro influencer
they may get like a hundred thousand
views in a day
right off that one post so by you going
on there and you also engage on there
too
uh and it's really useful i mean you
won't get 1000 views
but let's just say you get an extra 5
000 views that wouldn't
wouldn't have seen before well beautiful
that's great and let's say a percentage
of those convert over to new followers
right and then of course there's a dm
strategy connection request as well that
you want to do
all those things will help generate a
warm mode to nurture them
to eventually convert them into a lead
which will lead to future
opportunities got it man so it sounds
like these these are some great
strategies this basically doing all
these daily activities setting aside an
hour or so
with the the sole blame of people
finding the content you're putting out
helpful
useful interesting they go over to your
to your profile
to your landing page and over time
they've got the trust you've built up
the authority and they'll pop your
message or give you a call or give you
an email depending on what the call to
action you've listed on your
profile is to get the inbound
opportunity
yeah yeah but on top of that too um
there's also a dm strategy too
right there uh with new connection
requests because when they add me
i have a dms right here's the thing when
they add you like a
uh in your target market when they add
you it usually means
okay they say you know what i think
there's value in you
right i think i like your stuff for for
some reason they just they see some sort
of value in you right they're like okay
now maybe they can try to try to sell
you something which is possible but you
know hopefully hopefully there's let's
see value in your content can you do a
good job with that
there's a strategy when what you do
right so when
i accept that request okay so this is
for
people my target market when i set that
request i'm like okay cool
now what you want to do is you want to
make sure you dm them
all right now what i do is i do a video
message
right a video message so i do a video
message from my phone on the app
i drop a video message to introduce
myself right say what's up it's high
energy
it's custom to them it's not
pre-recorded so literally i'm like hey
what's up sam marcus shane here thanks
so much for adding me
right so they can see my personality
they can see i'm a real i'm a real dude
right you know it's really important and
it's wherever i'm at
so if my kid was like hanging off me
somewhere like you know like
my toddler he's in the video too right
if we're on a walk somewhere
we're on a walk in the video and like so
so people people really appreciate that
the realness of that personalized video
dm and then i also tell them
what i'm all about so it's like a 30
second you know video
and i really tell them that my goal is
to help salespeople out so
for anybody else out there you say my
goal is to help out people in
um you know information technology
whatever right people who are ai
and then boom give them something high
value completely free
that's what i do i get something really
high value completely free
right what kind of example you talking
about marcus yeah so i give out i'll
give up free trainings
i'll give out free guides all designed
to help sell sell people out right
uh for a while i'll i'll just invite
people to my free facebook group
right you know so uh and i do like live
trainings in there and free stuff as
well
so um you know right right now i give my
my free webinar right it's been
recognized yahoo finance i'm like hey
here's a free webinar training it's
it's it's automated go check it out if
you are if you want to learn how to do
this
boom send it to them and it's not like a
hard no hard closer it's like hey
i hope this is of value to you please
check it out if you like it that's it
boom
and short and sweet to the point
personalized i like it yeah
i probably get um easily
uh a 50 to 75 response rate
thanking me like oh wow
thank you so much i need this all right
like because
i didn't pitch them i gave them high
value they called actions
like just go check it out there's no
like go check it out now it's like
would you there's no book of time in my
calendar no none of that just hey
here's something of value would you like
it
that's it boom very soft
excellent well i think that's that's
awesome i mean if let's say let's flip
it a bit
and just say i was a personal trainer if
someone just added me just like you said
i could do a nice
30 second video saying hey john thanks
very much for adding me
i'm posting regular content on how you
can get fit top taining
chop training tips top nutrition tips
giving all these free recipes oh and
here's a guide i've just made on
how to work out in less time each week
if you want to check it out please do
something like that yeah there's an
example is that about right exactly and
i'll go even simpler right
like talk you want to talk like a
regular person
all right so like it's like hey hey hey
sam
marcus chan here if you couldn't tell i
love giving back to people to help them
lose weight
so here's this free video like a 10
minute video on how to burn calories
without doing a single thing
hope you like it see ya that's it
love it notice the lingo there right so
i don't use any type of
it's really important so the mistake
sometimes we make is we become an
expert in um of what we do and we use
vernacular
that's completely foreign to our target
market
right like you want to keep it really
simple
right like i don't even say something
like hey here's this free training where
i teach my reverse sales accelerating
methods which can help you do this i'm
like hey just free training help you
sell more
like oh cool that sounds good like i'm
that's i'm that simple right like
literally if you could take if you ever
use the app hemingwayapp.com
which helps you uncover and write
put your text in there to see how simple
you can write because you want to
ideally
write between like a third and fifth
grader because people can comprehend
things faster
you it's like whatever you say gets put
into
the hemingway app and gets spit out as a
third fifth grader
that's how simple you want to speak and
the reason why i like that man
yeah the reason why this is so important
is if it requires
too many brain cells to digest your
message
people say i'll watch this later no no
no no i don't want that i want them to
engage now
so i can make it really simple right so
that's why
how you say the wording the copy
everything is so vital
this is actually why when you do your
research on the hashtags the amazon
reviews the facebook groups online
reddit threads wherever
you look not just for the pain points
but also
what words they use how do they describe
what they want to achieve how do they
describe their pains and
use those same words in all your
marketing
from your website to your linkedin page
to your
your whatever you're offering out there
to your proposals to how you speak
and when you do that it cuts all the
fluff out and they can understand you
faster
and at the end of it sales communication
so your ability to communicate to your
prospect
is predicated on your ability to
simplify down
the most complex things you know as
davinci said simplicity is the ultimate
sophistication so
simplify supply simplify and your
message come over faster
and more clear to the person you're
trying to communicate with
love it man and i think that's
definitely something i'm guilty of
especially
in digital marketing using all these
acronyms and then sometimes forgetting
that my clients that actually
understand what i'm saying because i've
not made it clear for them so yeah
sometimes you just need to break it down
so our offering is nice and simple easy
to understand
we're not confusing our customers we're
making it as crystal clear as possible
so love that tip dude we're all good
i'm guilty too so that's it
so all right so we've covered some great
ground and i think the only thing left
unless i'm mistaken is outbound
prospecting so actually
reaching out to our ideal customers and
our ideal prospects uh how do we go
about that markers we've covered our
brand profile we've covered engaging
content we've covered attracting leads
but what about if we're still short of
leads and perhaps whilst we're building
up a pipeline how do we reach out to
people what's the best process for that
yeah great should we talk about linkedin
to be specific so we can really yeah
keep keep it keep it to the linkedin
otherwise we could be here a few hours
oh yeah i'm like okay well sadly we're
going to be like 10 hours now
high level training so let's talk about
linkedin specifically how
how do you go about getting more leads
you know
outbound wise right so um first off do
everything i mentioned upfront that's
really important so you still want
because if you don't have an optimized
profile
you don't have these things that you're
already doing the content um
the more you do of those things it
converts at a higher level when you do
outbound
all right but here's the thing if you do
an amazing job with all those things
you won't have to do outbound all right
so um
it's very very important so here's what
i'll do so first off um
do all those things and now next what
you want to do
now some people love to send emails i
would
highly discourage sending emails um you
don't want to do that um
what you want to do is you want to send
a connection request first now first off
so
find your target market whether you are
if you are using sales navigator great
if you're not don't even worry you can
do this without sales navigator
okay so you're looking for your target
market wherever they are
so for example if you see them in the
hashtags all right
or the macro influencers so again you
see them because you know if they are
there
number one they're engaging they're
focused they want to learn
they're already a little bit warmed up
all right
a little bit warmed up to something
right they're seeking some sort of
knowledge
it's kind of like if you type in how to
do blank on youtube
you're probably going to prospect for
whatever that person on the back and
how to do what right on linkedin same
concept look at the hashtags
right look in the comments same and as
you are engaging
go ahead and start adding people who are
in your target market asking those
questions
all right now what now
i'll do a general blanket statement i'll
get really specific in general when you
send a connection request
leave it blank take everything out all
right
and the reason why is this um most
people when they put in something in
there it's usually really generic
all right and most people are kind of
skeptical because they're thinking
who's this person where they're trying
to pitch me that's the first thing
people think
so do rule general or do sorry do blank
do it blank when you do a blank when
they see it they're like
hmm do i know this person
they're not sure it's kind of like if
someone calls you out of blue sandy that
you don't have the number
and they say hey sam it's john
your head you're like oh dang it john
john john john do i think i think hey
john
how are you like and they're like great
even though you never talked to me
before
same concept there's that fear and
anxiety in their mind when you see that
connection request
that has nothing inside they're like do
i know this person
i actually agree i mean i think with
linkedin connection requests you've got
to be careful because like you say
there's so many spam bots like robots
just sending out
generic messages and and then there's
just poor personalization
that like you'll see as literally just
cut and paste yes and then every now and
then you'll get a message
for example someone say to you marcus
hey marcus saw you on sam's podcast
love the part where you talked about how
you can utilize linkedin hashtag so if
it is hyper-personalized and it's
relevant
um then it's great otherwise i'm
completely with you just
if you've engaged on their content
recently and you send the request the
chances are they can remember that
you've engaged in their content and
they're going to recognize the request
and probably just say
yes that's right so for a great example
is this i think you send me connection
requests and i think you
you reference uh jamba songs uh you know
his podcast on there
which i'm like oh cool yeah so that i
thought was really awesome because
you did your homework it was a very
relevant personalized request
and those work really well so it's
either like if you can't do a
personalized one
and it can't be like hey i see we know
some of the same people no no
that's silly don't put that like if it's
like hey um hey sam
i love your post today about
um you know how to optimize for seo on
your website
okay cool thanks awesome thanks they
feel good
they're more likely to accept what's
really important right so i've tested it
where i've done
you know i've done hyper personalized um
general and no message hyper
personalized for sure
to that person is the best right but
sometimes you can't do it so as a
blanket statement
your second default is no message at all
okay so once they accept it great and
you'll see
the first one third one usually gets the
highest ones and fastest acceptance
rates
after they accept you want to do the
same
strategy as the inbound connection
request you send them a video dm
which again they'll throw them off
personalize to them say what's up same
concept hey thank you so much for
accepting my request if you couldn't
tell my big goal is help
you know help um sales professionals
lose weight
here's the three time in the video i
hope you enjoy it see ya boom that's it
super low
you know call back easy call to action
boom they like you they trust you
and now from there you'll see over time
the more you do it they're like oh cool
and here's the thing even though the
video function's been around for so long
people are very scared of it and that
helps gain trust very quickly and then
from
right it's amazing it's both of mine i'm
like this this like this
should be your number one way to do at
least the initial outreach
right um then from there it's much
easier
to like and if let's just say for
example let's say that they don't
respond totally fine
they don't respond no problem if you are
doing a really good job with your
content consistently
you will be nurturing them from afar
they'll be getting nurtured
they'll get warmed up to you right this
is why it's really gonna do a mixture of
video and text so i typically do four
texts
one video every single week so they get
nurtured through my content and warmed
up
and they feel more comfortable right
with me and they know i'm a
i'm an incredible person right so that's
important and then
over time eventually they'll probably dm
you right and of course you still can go
and
depending on if you're a sales
professional or business owner
you can niche that you can you can start
running back to them hey what'd you
think of that video after a few days
right and also once they uh once they
are
a connection request or a a connection
uh on linkedin
make sure you are engaging with their
stuff too
so they put out content let's say for
example you put you send them a dm
they you can tell you know they looked
at it but they're like
they didn't do anything with it no
problem right and the next day they put
a post up
make sure you go on there and drop
something super meaningful
on there so now they get a little more
warmed up
okay and let's just say for example you
wanna wait another day and they still
you know have not responded and they
probably just forgot because it's not a
very good you know
inbox anyways for managing your messages
so again they posted the next day you're
going to respond again
and then you dm the letter hey just
wanna circle back
you know it could be a voice memo right
hey just wanted to just check you know
hey sam it's the uh i'm not sure if you
had a chance to take a look at that
video uh what do you think
that's it there is no hey sam here's my
calorie link
would you like to meet this week
so again now they're getting more more
and more warmed up all right so
you can see now there's a system here of
warming people up
get them nurtured by your content your
page
your initial you know video dm when when
you're social selling it requires more
of a friend and nurturing
before you get to a conference you have
to earn the right
earn the right to have a conversation
right like they can just ignore you
so earn the right up front and you'll
see all those leads will convert into
real opportunities down the road
what i love about this is that there's
no pitching really there's no pitching
at all there's no instant connecting
pitch there's no dm in pitch there's no
pitch in your content you're putting out
it's all it's all kind of building an
inbound engine
through the content you're putting out
through a landing page through initial
outreach to connections and just slowly
nurturing and building trust from
from the process that you've explained
which is which is great
that's right i mean as you know um when
you when you have a well optimized
linkedin profile right when you
google search that person linkedin's on
the topic is going to show up
right like you it's it's it's designed
for that
right so um it's like everything has to
be optimized properly
to help drive you to be the top of
search as well down the road right and
that's
important for what you talk about right
and obviously optimizing your website so
that's why
again it's like a tool like anything
else if you use it properly
it can help you build your business
build or at least additional source of
revenue for your business
um and it can be really useful building
your brand and getting you exposure
um what i appreciate about linkedin like
i've been serious about linkedin for
about 11 months now
you know um you know for my business and
it's been
amazing from not just you know not just
you know um you know revenue
but just the people i got to meet as a
result right
partnerships you know again you know i'm
fortunate to get invited to your podcast
stuff like this is because of linkedin
right if i
didn't do what i did then john wouldn't
have found me then you wouldn't have
seen john's
and i wouldn't be here right so there's
many things that lead up to it it didn't
happen overnight
but took time to get to this point so
it's a powerful tool to use it properly
awesome man really enjoyed this
conversation marcus
let's um what's your what's what's the
one thing that people shouldn't do
on linkedin that you see the most is
there like one pet peeve
one thing that you're saying that you
think oh people stop doing this it'll
just help them so much
yeah i would say the the simplest one
would be simply
uh the connecting pitch that we see so
often right i mean that's that's pretty
common
people for those who are listening what
that means is um you send a connection
request
and then immediately after is a pretty
lengthy essay if you will that has a
pitch of some sort say hey
uh i work for this aluminum manufacturer
and we have this type of aluminum and
blah blah blah blah blah
and then i book a time i calendar here
and that's for i see for all this
industry don't do that because nobody
likes that right
it doesn't doesn't work right and uh
it's frankly
um is playing numbers game uh now here's
the thing
i'm sure some people out there like well
i do it does work
well but i'm sure your conversion rate
is very very low right and
on top of that like let's just say even
if you are lucky and you have to convert
say five percent
right that's 95 people you're burning
through
and now they picture you and they
screenshot you and they post it on
linkedin
you are an example right you were an
example of the people of what not to do
so i would i would stop doing that
asap see you're right dude marcus
appreciate the conversation everyone
you've been tuning in to sam's business
growth show where we sit down business
leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe we find out their story how
digital marketing has helped along the
way and their exclusive tips and
insights to help you score look at
yourselves
and your business marcus if you thank
just one person either dead or alive
having a positive influence on yourself
and your career who would that be
and why yeah uh easily my dad by far
right my dad was uh he immigrated from
america
with absolutely nothing and um despite
not having
really even be on the eighth grade
education he taught me so many lessons
about
um not just like you know just life and
business but also how to be a better
human being
to be a great father super great husband
to be a great you know
business owner so my dad and i'm very
fortunate he's still alive so
i'll probably show his podcast to him
later so he can hear it too
good man well marcus tell us a bit more
about your business how people can learn
from you how people can connect with you
and the best way for everyone to get in
touch
yeah awesome right so uh if you're on
linkedin you can look me up
marcus chan is the only guy with speedos
right now in the tagline so you can find
me on there really easily
obviously you can find me on facebook
and instagram as well
and then of course uh if you want some
free resources a bunch of free trainings
and free things to help you out
just head to our marcus chan dot io
forward slash resources that's marcus
chan
i o fourth house resources tons of free
resources in there to help you
sell more and earn more nice one and
everyone tuning in make sure to follow
market is putting out some awesome
content if you're in sales so well worth
connecting with or following marcus
really appreciate your time dude
and thanks so much for coming on if you
enjoyed the show please do subscribe on
your podcast channel of choice be apple
podcast spotify youtube wherever the
heck you get your podcast from we
interview tons of business leaders and
experts from around the globe
each and every week and thank you so
much for tuning in are you tired
of constantly hunting for new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities
all because your website isn't on the
first page of google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with sam dunning on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation
via webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts